Welcome to work.
Book 8.3.
I already went ahead and launched the Starter Project.
This workbook is going to be a bit nostalgic because we're basically going back to the concept of field
validation.
So first things first, we need to add the validation dependency.
Go to the Central Maven repo and just copy it over to your POM that XML file so that your validation
dependency can be pulled.
We do not need to specify the version for this spring boot starter and I'm going to synchronize the
build file.
All right.
Should be enough.
Test two is to apply a validation constraints such that we need to prevent the submission of a blank
name or a blank phone number.
So we'll go over to our pod class and we will make sure that the name they provide is not the blank,
so that the message you are going to send back is name cannot be blank.
And here.
The message we were going to send back is number cannot be blank.
Okay.
Now you'll recall that the valid annotation is what actually performs the validation process on your
object based on the constraint applied to each field.
Now, where should we apply the valid annotation, do you think?
Well wherever a contact object is being created and populated with fields.
So when this handler method gets invoked, what's going to happen is Spring Boot is going to create
a new contact object using your constructor, and then it's going to serialize the contents of the request
body into your Java object, updating your name and updating the phone number.
And as the name and phone number are being updated, we need to make sure that they are being validated
using the valid annotation.
We're going to do this over here.
And that should be it.
These are the only two places where we need to perform validation.
Now in order to handle invalid fields, we can actually do this in our global exception handler, which
is extremely convenient because we already have it set up to handle our runtime exception.
All we need to do is inherit from the response entity.
Exception Handler Class extends response entity.
Exception Handler.
And now I can override the handle method argument not valid function beautiful.
So now you'll remember that after spring boot validates the fields of your object, a binding result
is going to carry the result of this validation.
We studied this in section three.
We can access the binding result through the method argument, not valid exception.
So for now I'm just going to print it.
I'm just going to say print line exception dot get binding result dot get all errors.
Here.
It tells us to return an appropriate status code in the event that there are invalid arguments in this
case.
What do you think we need to return?
Well, let's go to modular status codes.
We'll go to the client responses because this involves a bad request on the client portion of things.
And I would say this is a bad request because the user is passing in invalid data.
So if this happens, we're going to send back a new response entity with an HTTP status code of bad
request.
All right.
And now and learn the part.
It tells us to create a far loop.
That loops through every single error inside of the list of errors.
So each element is of type object error.
Let's just go ahead and import that.
Okay.
And we can just go ahead and print.
Error Dot.
Get default message because this allows us to print a string.
I think we're good to go.
Let's go to postmen and we're going to make a post request.
Um.
The name is going to be Tyrion Lannister.
Actually there should be data and learn the part.
Let's just copy that.
Over.
We're sending over a bad phone number.
And did I even run my application?
Silly me, I did not.
All right, we'll send over that request and we get back a 400 bad request.
So here, if you look closely, it says the number cannot be blank.
All right.
There's actually only one error, so we didn't actually need to perform the loop.
But anyways, we can move on with task number five.
Inside Error Response Java.
We need to convert our message field into a list.
Hmm.
I wonder why we're doing that.
That's going to become apparent very soon.
So we'll make this into a list.
All right.
We're going to have to modify our constructor.
And we can regenerate our galleries and setters.
Okay.
Going back over here.
Our Error Response constructor now expects a list so we can cheat and just say arrays dot as list passing
this into a list and then passing it into our constructor.
And now let me just go ahead and pass in a bad get request.
We'll say slash contact.
We'll put in an idea that doesn't exist.
All right.
And now you'll notice that as spring boots sterilizes the properties of this Java object into JSON,
the list gets converted into a JSON array type.
Such that all of the elements that would be contained in this list will be part of the JSON array inside
of these brackets.
This is really nice.
In JSON, there are array types, there are string types, there are number types.
So far we've only seen array in string, but I'm sure in the future will be seeing many more data types.
Anyways, inside handle method argument.
Not valid.
We need to create an error response object and append every error message from the binding result into
the list.
This makes a lot of sense because if the user were to mess up both the names and the phone number,
we would need to send back two error messages, not just one.
So here, what we're going to do is create a new list, list, string.
We'll call it error is I guess is equal to a new array list.
And now I can just say.
Errors.
Dot ad and we're going to add each error or each string into this errors list.
And now I can respond with a new object of the error response class.
And into this constructor, we can pass in the errors list.
All right, let's try this out.
You know what?
Let's retest the get request.
Everything still working?
Just fine.
Let's test the post request this time.
We'll make sure the name is blank as well.
Send it over.
And this is awesome.
As we pass in a blank name and a blank phone number, our binding result is going to have two errors
where appending two strings inside of our errors list, we're creating a new error response, passing
in that array list of two elements.
Spring Boot is going to serialize the properties of this Java object into JSON, such that this list
is converted to a JSON array type that contains each element.
All right.
And I believe this wraps up workbook 8.3.